\chapter{Background}

\section{Previous work}

Source level transpilation of a dependently type programming lanugage has not
been done before. However several translations between proofs systems have been
attempted. The benefit of reusing existing proofs in a new system is obvious.

However, in practice there are lots of implemnetations difficulties.

A dependently typed programming language can also be used for computer-checked
proofs thanks to the Curry-Howard correspondence. A type signature represents
a proposition and any implementation which type checks is a proof of that
proposition. Agda is designed to be both a programming language and proof
assistant. Idris is mainly designed to be a programming language. There are
several other projects which are mainly proof assistants and not useful for
general purpose programming. Some examples are: Coq, HOL and NuPRL.

There is not much work on transpiling between dependently type programming
languages, but there are a lot of work done on translating between different
proof assistants.

One interesting project is Dedukti~\cite{assaf2016dedukti}. The authors sees
the possibility to use Dedukti as a unifing framework for large parts of logic
and many proof systems. They plan to implement tranpilers/translators from most
proof systems to Dedukti. One such translator is described
in~\cite{assaf2015translating} where they translat HOL into Dedukti. They claim
to successfully translate the standard library of OpenTheory. % TODO describe OpenTheory
They also claim that their translator is more scalable
then~\cite{obua2006importing} for example.

Most previous work tries to convert the proof from one system for use in
another. \cite{felty1997hybrid} takes another apporach. The try to use HOL and
NuPRL in conjuction for one single proof.

\cite{denney2000prototype} translates from HOL to Coq using a own intermediate
representation. Specifically it tries to make the destination format readable.
This is the only other translator which has human readable destination format
as a goal besides my project.
